
Task 1
Create a conceptual data model to represent the data requirements of the Help
Desk scenario. Your model should include an E-R diagram and entity headings
(listing the attributes associated with entity types). List any assumptions you
have made.


Task 2 – Relational Schema (20%)
Using your conceptual data model, develop a relational schema consisting of the
definitions of the domains and relations that represent the entity and relationship
types, including primary keys, foreign keys and any constraints.


Task 3: Database Implementation (10%)
Use your design to implement the Help Desk database using Oracle DBMS. You
should use SQL statements to create tables, insert data and queries to provide
the following functionality: (Every SQL including the CREATE and INSERT
statements, must be documented and saved using notepad or MS Word)


Task 4 – Database Test (20%)
Test your database by answering the following questions. You must document
the SQL statement for each question:
Select Queries
1. List the details of equipment and associated software.
2. Produce a list of experts (support staff) for a given problem area
3. Produce a list of all unresolved problems with the assigned Specialist
4. Produce a list of problems reported by a member of staff, the details of
the support staff who attended the problem and the solution provided by
the support staff
5. Find (display) the average time taken fix fault for a given problem area.
6. Display a list of the most common problems and order them in according
to the frequency of their occurrence.
7. Display the equipment with the most reported problems showing
problem details
8. Produce a list of problems that have been solved by helpdesk operator
Update and Delete Queries
9. Add a new Specialist to the database
10. Assign a specialist for a given problem (it must be an unresolved,
unassigned and should find a matching Specialist)
11. Update the Call-log with appropriate details when the problem has been
resolved.12. An item of Equipment which, has previously had a fault reported, has
now become redundant so Delete it from the database.
